How would you, in looking back on the whole tragedy, how would you evaluate the way in which A&M in general handled that tragedy?
Very well.
Definitely very well.
Just seeing, like I was saying, seeing the amount of people, the amount of students that turned out to that ceremony that night, seeing or just hearing the moment of silence that we had towards the end and hearing off into the distance, not really knowing where it started.
but Amazing Grace start that night and just seeing Amazing Grace three or four times that night with the entire
I mean Reed Arena was packed where I think they said that we had close to probably 18 or 20,000 people in there that night and just hearing it echo through there and being in the prayer vigils the next couple of days and knowing just how much it meant to the community to pull together being in a
just the MSC and seeing all of the memorial things that A&M was doing.
You could write your little notes.
Being out at the site around the fence that they had made and all of the memories that people had put there.
The one thing that stood out in my mind the most was around the
The flagpole at the systems building, they had put a little memorial around there to where people could place items that they'd like to.
And seeing just, I'd say, probably 10 or 15 Aggie rings that people had laid down there saying, if they can't get their Aggie ring, I don't want to have mine.
And I just remember seeing that and going, like, unbelievable.
This is...
and knowing that that was my defying moment at A&M was was the whole week around bonfire tragedy knowing this is a humongous 45,000 person family and everybody there has at least one thing in common and that that is holding the Aggie spirit within and being able to just to talk to to random people waiting in line for something or being in class and sitting next to somebody you've never seen before but
all of a sudden just starting to talk to them it was it was like the the it was it was honestly a a blessing to have a it was almost a campus revival that we had and uh still today i mean sure it a lot of the stuff has gone back to to what um a lot of the mentality before bonfire um and still some negative attitudes here and there but it's not as much um as it was definitely uh i mean it wasn't that big of a negative attitude around campus but it was
more of just the modern day folks around but knowing now that especially with the juniors and seniors on campus right now that were the only two classes now that were here then when bonfire went on that were here when the tragedy happened and still trying to educate the sophomores and the freshmen now and every freshman class that comes in now educating them on what bonfire meant to this campus and what the tragedy had done to this campus and
just kind of the transformation.
If you were the decision maker, what would you advise A&M to do in the future?
As far as bonfire goes?
A bonfire like something.
Right.
Great question, because I've been faced with this question quite a bit.
I've been able to sit on some committees about this as well.
And I have gotten a chance to talk to a
to Dr. Bowen, who's our president right now, and Dr. Sutherland, who's the Vice President of Student Affairs right now, and gotten a lot of chance to sit down with those two individuals and talk to them, especially Dr. Sutherland a lot, and just student leaders.
I hate the fact that we don't have Bonfire right now, but in the same sense, as much as Bonfire was going to have to change to be able to have it,
this past year when we thought we were and we weren't going to be able to as much as bonfire was going to be different in the different plan that they had for it it was going to be a different bonfire than everybody was aware of and I still think not a lot of people realize that they still think it's going to be the same old bonfire sure the students are going to be working on it as much but it's going to be the same kind of atmosphere going there and I really didn't think it was going to be that kind of situation I talked to my dad a lot about this because my dad had a big problem
but the fact that we weren't going to be having it anymore.
And he didn't think a lot of the things that A&M was doing was they were doing in the best interest of Bonfire.
But being in the loop with my student leadership opportunities that I've had and being able to voice my opinion and to see
I mean, just how much campus has changed, especially from a risk management point of view, of what all has to go into an event at this magnitude and having the liability being placed in other places because it really wasn't there back when bonfire fell.
And that's why a lot of the problems, especially the lawsuits, are going on right now.
So knowing that a lot of the liability was having to be transferred elsewhere rather than the university, and so there was a lot of things that had to be different, knowing that students weren't going to be able to cut anymore.
Even though I knew that wasn't something that I wanted to do, I knew it was an important part to this campus.
Being able to do stack, I knew that was also an important part, and they were going to be limiting a lot for student involvement with that as well.
It just wasn't going to be the same.
Honestly, I've gotten to the opinion now, I'd love to see Bonfire back, but realistically, it's the Bonfire that we all knew back then.
I don't think having a changed Bonfire to where it's basically going to be called Bonfire, but it's going to be something different.
I don't think that this campus really wants that.
Even though it says it does, I don't think it really does want that.
And I mean honestly now, just with everything that has gone on this past year with the decisions that have been made, I think that
not having bonfire now and keeping bonfire this sacred tradition that we had it was a it was our 20th century tradition having it as that just moving on I think is right now is probably one of the best things that we can do I know a lot of people would really get upset with me by saying that but I think honestly deep down when they realize
everything that's going to be different, I think they probably feel that same way too.
So it's a tough situation to be in and a tough opinion to make, but it's still the same situation.
I don't want to ruin the memories of Bonfire by changing it now and forgetting what it was.
The other important organizational activities, many of them have rotated for years around the MSC.
Correct.
Did you get involved with MSC-based activities there?
I didn't.
I did student government my freshman year.
My spring semester, my freshman year, that's when I did the fraternity, and that's when I got involved with Interfraternity Council, which is involved with student activities, not the MSC.
Describe Interfraternity Council.
It's the governing body of all the fraternities, and sororities have Panhellenic, and then there's the Multicultural Greek Council, which is all the multicultural sororities and fraternities, and then National Panhellenic Council, which is
the predominantly african-american fraternities and sororities so there's four councils the inter-fraternity council is the one that that governs all the fraternities right now we have 19 fraternities that we govern how many members probably um of those 19
How many students are involved?
Well, there's each chapter since they're present to... No, no, but... Oh, as far as our exec board?
No, no, no.
How many fraternity members?
Oh, I got you.
About a hundred.
I'd say it varies.
The bigger chapters, a bigger chapter that I'm involved with,
We have, on average, 100 to a little over 100 men.
There's some medium-sized chapters that range anywhere from about 60 to 80 members.
And then we have a couple, but not as many, but smaller chapters that range from, there's one chapter with eight members, and then there's another up to chapter with about 45.
So on average, we have probably average fraternity size 70.
About how many of them have their own house?
Wow I think there's eight or nine
of the 19 that have their own house.
I'm maybe underestimating that.
It might be 10 or 11.
I can't remember the exact number.
But it's unlike any other campus.
Fraternity houses are scattered all through Bryan and College Station.
And that's bad.
And it is bad.
But to the same extent, a lot of the Aggie mentality within the fraternity system, it's tradition.
We really don't want to get a fraternity row, even though it's been talked about.
And it's becoming more and more of a
of a common opinion that the guys are wanting to go more towards a fraternity row.
All right, the area go up Old College to the west of Hensel Park.
Correct.
That had been... That vacant area.
That vacant area had been talked about for a long time, but I don't know if they've completely ruled that out as a university-funded fraternity row.
Another big, big area is...
The land out on, I can't remember the name of the road, but it runs adjacent to George Bush Drive, right next to the Reed House.
There's a huge open kind of pasture land right there, and that's another university-owned land that it would also be.
That's kind of right now one of the main talked-about areas.
And I'm sure it's going to be an even bigger talked about area when we get our new president of the university.
In my years at Missouri, they're a great fraternity and sorority system.
Right.
And they're there right next to the campus, so you walk to and from class.
Exactly.
And I wish that's the way it was here, but, I mean, the fraternity and sororities didn't come on A&M until mid-'70s.
How do you think that the fraternities and sororities here are perceived by the general A&M public?
It's very, very mixed.
I have been told by some people on campus that we're doing a very good job.
It may not be for them, but we are doing a very good job in what we do.
In another sense, I've been told by, especially people with the residence halls, the residence halls I think probably have, for the most generalized part, they probably have the biggest problem with us because they see us as another form of residence halls and we're off campus.
So we're kind of taking away people from campus and giving them another place to live.
within an organization itself.
Because the residence halls, what's great about the residence halls at A&M, rather than any other campus, is it's like its own fraternity or sorority here.
They get a lot of involvement and leadership within the residence halls, and it's a great place for people to go.
Especially when Bonfire was here, it was even bigger.
And they're starting to lose that a little bit, but not that much, just because they don't have the bonfire leadership anymore.
However, they think we're taking away a lot of the Aggie spirit away from campus.
I've been told that they think that we're so disaffiliated with the university that they wish we'd come back more into campus life.
But honestly, I don't think they really realize how many people in the fraternity system are involved in more than one organization on campus other than the fraternity.
And the same with the sorority system as well.
that how much involved we are within the traditions at A&M even though we don't do a lot on campus we're still a pretty heavy presence on campus and we do recruit a lot of a lot of freshmen and sophomores and a lot of those people live on campus when we recruit them so there still is a good young blood of fresh Aggies that decide to come into the fraternity system that are still
hardcore A&M living within the residence halls.
Describe how you became the
Is it chairman?
President.
President of IFC.
When I was a pledge, I had showed some interest in leadership opportunities within the chapter, especially through IFC.
I saw it as kind of a good way to kind of get my foot in the door with a good leadership body.
I thought that if I was going to do fraternity, I probably wouldn't be doing student government, but I've always been kind of attracted to the whole leadership aspect.
So my pledge semester, they had brought me out, told me I was inactive when I went to IFC meetings as a rep because I technically wasn't supposed to be there as a pledge.
But they needed somebody to go as our representative from our fraternity.
So I took that role, became our fraternity's representative on IFC even though I was still pledging the fraternity.
Wasn't inactive yet, not initiated.
but enjoyed it thoroughly.
That fall of my sophomore year, I was still a rep, but I knew I wanted to progress within my leadership opportunities there.
I ran as a sophomore for the secretary's position and got it.
I was one of a couple sophomores out of a bunch of juniors and seniors in fifth years.
On the council there were 11 or 12, I think there was 11 positions then.
And I was the secretary, really worked hand in hand with everybody on there.
Being secretary, it was basically just minutes and keeping organization of the committee.
But I would kind of help out in any way I can with any of the other committees, just getting myself involved, learning the system, helping chapters with one another.
And through that, I think towards the end of my spring semester of my sophomore year and going into the fall semester of my junior year, when I really realized
that I think running for president was for me.
And I ran against another guy that was also an exec with myself.
I don't know how close the vote was or anything, but I wound up winning the presidential election in November of 2001.
And all this past, the end of that semester and all this past semester, I have served as president.
And it has truly been an unbelievable opportunity.
What are the major topics you've worked with?
The major things that I do with IFC president is I oversee the council.
My main thing is delegation.
I delegate, of course, recruitment tasks to our recruitment chairs, risk management to our risk management guy.
There's a president and eight vice presidents now.
We've condensed some of the positions, but there's eight VPs and then president.
So I oversee all the VPs of what all they're doing, making sure that they're staying motivated, that they're staying with their tasks, they're getting their things done.
And then I'll help out with a lot of the, we do a lot of round tables, putting on programs to teach chapters about risk management, about proper rush techniques, like alcohol awareness, different things like that we put on some round tables.
And so I'll help with that.
kind of mediate with those kind of discussions.
My main job is the liaison between the fraternity system and campus and so I really did a lot of work with Schuyler Hauser, our student body president this past year.
She was
Unbelievable.
She was a big fan of the fraternity system and really tried to get us as involved as she could within student government.
So I got to use a lot of the skills I learned within Fish Aids to use within student government being the IFC and the fraternity system's liaison to this.
So I got to sit on a lot of committees about bonfire.
and kind of voicing our concern within the fraternity community about a lot of these issues and i i did have the privilege of sitting in on the presidential selection committee for our new um the selection of our new incoming um university president for this next year so i did any impression yes sir it was a describe what you can of that it was a really why i can i'm not asking you to share anything right
I mean, there's not very many secrets to most of the stuff that we learned were printed in the battalion or whatnot, but it was an unbelievable opportunity to meet.
There was Dr. Herman from University of Illinois, Dr. Whitmore from University of Iowa, and Dr. Gates, who is on George Bush's staff right now.
And just meeting those three individuals, very different individuals in their own way but similar in others, it was an unbelievable opportunity just to be able to meet them, see what they would bring to A&M, and just a privilege to be able to voice my opinion of what I thought about each of them, positives and negatives, and how I thought they would affect A&M.
and why they would be a good A&M president or why not a good A&M president to writing my email to the Board of Regents.
So knowing that they would be reading my opinions and possibly making the decision off mine or the other 20 individuals that I sat on the committee with.
So it was a privilege to be able to do that.
Did anybody attempt to persuade you
one way or the other?
Did any outsider try to twist your arm?
Not really at all.
I would always get a lot of questions about, so how was Dr. Herman?
What was he like?
Or how was Dr. Whitmore?
What did he have to say?
I did get a lot of questions about Dr. Gates, just because being the former director of the CIA.
But no outsider, no former student?
No outsider telling me, look, you need to vote for this guy, or this guy is not the right guy for that.
It was solely on my impressions of...
of the three individuals and what I thought about each of them, which was good.
It was a very unbiased situation that I was put into.
It made the decision a little bit easier, but still, it was a very tough decision from my standpoint of who I liked the best.
But ultimately, it's not my decision, thank goodness, just because the Cannons were so qualified.
I know now that Dr. Herman from Illinois had withdrawn from the application, and now they say it's down between Dr. Gates and then Phil Graham, Senator Graham.
So I know I've heard, I haven't gotten the opportunity to interview Senator Graham, but I have heard a lot of,
positive and negative.
It's a real black and white feeling with Senator Graham.
But it's kind of fun to see the process kind of continue.
Did you, in your presidency, did you all have to worry with any problem fraternities?
We have, actually.
Unfortunately, we did have to remove a fraternity this semester, but... And what was their problem?
It was just a...
Normally when a fraternity gets kicked off, it's kind of a rarity that they do one thing and then they get kicked off.
It's normally they do quite a few things.
In the past of A&M's fraternity's history, they have had, I believe, one death that wound up having a fraternity get kicked off for five years.
But they're back and what they do when they kick them off is they do it for at least
four years or so to where they get all the people that were in that chapter, associated with that chapter, graduated, and then they start from scratch, which is a great idea, the way that they should do it.
but normally when a lot of these fraternities are kicked off it's for a number of violations and things that they were told to change and they never did or just poor management on their part of trying to manage their case and their chapter.
The chapter that we kicked off
They're kicked off campus for two years, but they're automatically reinstated in two years.
So basically, we're just suspending them for two years, but they do lose their house.
They do lose all their opportunities that they had on campus.
They're not an organization, but they will be in two years, which is a little bit different situation.
But they had a serious situation in the fall.
where they had a discrimination case against a homosexual in September, which didn't lead to anything.
The discrimination case did not lead to anything, except that it did uncover a number of violations that the chapter had had during Rush.
And because of that, they were found guilty on some, our rush, our recruitment is dry, no alcohol.
So they exposed some alcohol violations throughout rush.
So they were put on what we call deferred suspension, which is basically they're under heavy surveillance, they're heavy watch.
And basically it's the one more strike and you're out clause.
And when they got...
slapped with the deferred suspension it was a couple weeks later the chapter had a very bad in some senses with some of the members they had a kind of a negative approach towards IFC saying that they were IFC was always coming after them they weren't really doing anything wrong and they're sick of they want to they're sick and tired of everybody else pointing the finger at them they want to be the ones pointing the finger and it's unfortunate that some of that mentality was there but
It's just kind of the way it is, I guess, but they wound up having a violation with, they put Christmas lights up and it was a lewd thing that they had put Christmas lights with.
And so they had a report into the campus and wound up finding them guilty.
So it's just an unfortunate situation, but it wasn't the entire chapter.
I know quite a few guys in that chapter that are really good leaders, but they were, unfortunately, these guys are still young enough that they weren't at the top of their chapter yet, and they were just hoping and praying that they could get those guys graduated in May so where they could start changing some stuff, and it wound up not working out.
But I have been faced with some situations like that.
Any truly goofy things?
Well...
you know silly there well there have been some so normally a lot of the silly stuff doesn't get brought up to we have our own judicial board that A&M has allowed us to kind of police ourselves so none of the really truly goofy things get sent to there it's normally handled internally without taking it to the judicial board but
We do hear occasionally, we do see some goofy stuff.
The normally goofy stuff happens a lot.
We have our bid day ceremony when our rushes accept their bids and what they do is they run down the steps of the system building into the chapter.
And so we've really changed for this next fall a lot of the procedures for bid day, but in the past it's been a lot of highly intoxicated guys coming on the campus unfortunately, but still they come on and dressed in some very goofy paraphernalia and some goofy stories.
And normally most of the goofy stuff that happens is before I came in leadership within IFC,
I was within the chapter just going around.
I had a video camera and we'd go around interviewing a lot of the more intoxicated people on vid day and just seeing stupid stuff that we could get them to do and say.
So that kind of is more in the goofy sense.
But as far as chapters doing stuff goofy,
more stupidity more than anything, which is just you kind of laugh at saying, I can't believe that chapter's done that kind of thing.
I'm trying to, I really can't think of anything off the top of my head.
You all do rush and bid the second semester?
We do both.
We do fall and spring rush.
Can an incoming freshman be involved in rush?
Yes, sir.
They can be involved.
Rush is always the second week of the semester, so they can go through Rush the second week at A&M, which a lot of people do.
I did not.
If somebody comes up to me and asks me for my true advice, I tell them,
go through them in the spring.
That's what I was saying.
That's better for y'all and for them.
Exactly.
They understand the situation better than you have seen this freshman for a semester.
And I also, well, I can't see of any
I can't, because you're not short on members.
Right.
And I can't see of any disadvantage to that.
Right, but it's, we extend, I mean, there are some people that go through as first semester freshmen, and they do a great job.
It's just something that they become accustomed to really, really quickly.
Some others don't do so hot, and they wind up having to drop out and go through in the spring or the next year.
How would you rate the general area of student services here at A&M?
I think is just as far as overall student services that the university provides to the students is phenomenal.
I mean you have basically everything here that you could ever need just as far as just the organizations that people can go join to the amenities that are on campus.
Even people do talk about how
brutal our health center is and they don't like going to their just the fact that we do have basically an on-campus hospital that if you are sick it's there for you and you make an appointment go in and see a doctor and sometimes you won't get treated for what you need to get treated for but still it's there.
Is it still called Quack Shack?
It's still called the Quack Shack, yes sir.
It's Butyl Health Center but they still call it Quack Shack and just a lot of the other things.
He pronounced his name Beudel.
Beudel, really?
Yes.
Everybody here calls it Beudel.
Okay.
That's, I did not know, that's interesting.
A.P.
Beudel was the, he ran, managed the big Dow chemical plant down in Freeport.
Okay.
He was one of the key board members when Rudder was making all those decisions.
Right.
He was one of the positive votes for all the changes.
Really?
I was not aware of that.
Let's see, religious activities on campus.
Heavily.
That is a big presence on campus and something that I've been involved with as well since I've been here.
A very, very, very big Christian foundation here on campus that just is here.
For instance, the breakaway that goes on campus on Tuesday nights is phenomenal.
You pack in probably several thousand people into part of Reed Arena.
It's too big to have it in Rudder Auditorium.
They started out doing two breakaway services and it was just too much and it was always overcrowded.
So they moved it to Reed Arena.
We have had it out at Olson Baseball Field when the weather's nice and that's a lot of fun too.
You do have to fight with the train going by.
the train whistle, but still, it's a fun deal.
Greg Mott is the guy that leads it, and you always have great singing, praise and worship at the beginning, and a good message at the end.
That's one of the main things on campus as far as just the religious... How, as far as you're aware, how are non-Christian religious groups treated by Aggies?
It's...
From the most part, I think they're treated well.
They're just treated like normal Aggies.
But especially being in the leadership position that I've been involved in and being sitting on some diversity task forces and different things like that, I've heard some...
cases where some of the, like an atheist group on campus or some other religion that like Christians really aren't that familiar with or it's a new religion or whatnot that are on campus and they're more or less kind of
questioned a lot by the by the Christians on campus but I mean I I think if you're gonna be anywhere especially in in the south where A&M is and being in the Bible Belt any kind of other religion other than Christianity I think is gonna have questions be brought up to it saying why Jewish students here are certainly not treated as outcasts are they no not at all but they're I mean they're
Honestly, the Jewish students here on campus are fairly just kind of quiet.
I mean, they don't keep to themselves just as far as they don't go out and do stuff, but the Jewish organizations and stuff on campus really aren't that, there are some, but not really outspoken.
They are during, and they do a great job during the Holocaust week during the spring, and they put on a great exhibit about the Holocaust, and they do a lot of
neat little programs and stuff during that, but it's more or less like if, especially